add replication-and-rebalancing.md (#240)
tikv/website: content/docs/5.1/concepts/explore-tikv-features/replication-and-rebalancing.md

---
title: Replication and rebalancing
description: Replication and rebalancing
menu:
    "5.1":
        parent: Features
        weight: 1
---

> This page walks you through a simple demonstration of how TiKV replicates, distributes, and rebalances data. Starting with a 3-node local cluster, you'll write some data via [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) and verify that it replicates in triplicate by default. You'll then add 2 more nodes and watch how TiKV automatically rebalances replicas to efficiently use all available capacity. **NOTE: Do not apply this on production.**

Author: The `warning` macro is really cool.

> This page walks you through a simple demonstration of how TiKV replicates, distributes, and rebalances data. Starting with a 3-node local cluster, you'll write some data via [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) and verify that it replicates in triplicate by default. You'll then add 2 more nodes and watch how TiKV automatically rebalances replicas to efficiently use all available capacity. **NOTE: Do not apply this on production.**

Author: Done.

## Before you begin

Make sure you have install [TiUP](https://github.com/pingcap/tiup) version **v1.5.2** or above.

> ## Step 1. Start a 3-node cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Start a 3-node cluster
```

Author: Seems it is no different. The format here is referred to https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.1/demo-replication-and-rebalancing.html

> 1. Use the `tiup-playground` to start a 3-node local cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `tiup-playground` to start a 3-node local cluster.
```

Author: Though there is only one operation in this step, I am trying to keep the structure of all steps the same.

Author: Done.

    ```sh
    tiup playground v5.0.2 --mode tikv-slim --kv 3
    ```

    The Command above will output the following content:
    ```txt
    ...
    Starting component `playground`: /home/pingcap/.tiup/components/playground/v1.5.0/tiup-playground --mode tikv-slim --kv 3
    Using the version v5.0.2 for version constraint "".

    If you'd like to use a TiDB version other than v5.0.2, cancel and retry with the following arguments:
        Specify version manually:   tiup playground <version>
        Specify version range:      tiup playground ^5
        The nightly version:        tiup playground nightly

    Playground Bootstrapping...
    Start pd instance
    Start tikv instance
    Start tikv instance
    Start tikv instance
    PD client endpoints: [127.0.0.1:2379]
    To view the Prometheus: http://127.0.0.1:33703
    To view the Grafana: http://127.0.0.1:3000
    ```

## Step 2. Write data

On another terminal session, we will use [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) to launch a workload.

1. Clone the `go-ycsb` from GitHub.
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb.git
    ```
2. Then build the application from source.
    ```sh
    make
    ```

> 3. load a small workload using `go-ycsb`
>     ```
>     # By default, this workload will insert 1000 records into TiKV
>     ./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="127.0.0.1:2379" -p tikv.type="raw" 
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. load a small workload using `go-ycsb`

    ```bash
    # By default, this workload will insert 1000 records into TiKV
    ./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="127.0.0.1:2379" -p tikv.type="raw" 
    ```
```

Author: Done.

| Concept     |                                                                                                          Description                                                                                                           |
| ----------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| **Region**  | TiKV could be seems as a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. Region is the basic unit of key-value data movement. Each Region is a range of keys and replicated to multiple Nodes. These multiple replicas form a Raft group. |
| **Replica** |                                                                 TiKV replicates each region (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different node.                                                                  |

2. With those concepts in mind, open the Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (printed from `tiup-playground`) and login with `admin` whose password is the same as username.

> 3. On the **playground-overview** dashboard, note the matrices in **region** panel in **TiKV** tab. It shows that the Regions count is the same on all three nodes. This indicates that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **playground-overview** dashboard, note the metrics in **region** panel in **TiKV** tab. It shows that the Regions count is the same on all three nodes. This indicates that:
```

Author: Done.

   *  There are this many "ranges" of data in the cluster. These are the small workload that we use `go-ycsb` injected.

>    * Each region has been replicated 3 times (according to the TiKV default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Each region has 3 replicas (according to the default configuration).
```

Author: Seems they are the same?

Reviewer 2: I like the version from @marsishandsome

Author: Done.

>    * For each region, each replica is stored on different nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For each region, each replica is stored on different peers.
```

Author: A replica of a Region is called a Peer. Here we should emphasize the term **node**

Reviewer: my fault.
`nodes` -> `stores`.

Reviewer: If we start 3 tikv instances on one machine, there will be 1 node and 3 stores. 
am i right?

1. With an new terminal session, and launch a larger workload with `go-ycsb`.
    For example, on a machine with 16 virtual cores, you can launch a workload in the following way:
   ```sh
   ./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="127.0.0.1:2379" -p tikv.type="raw" -p tikv.conncount=16 -p threadcount=16 -p recordcount=1000000
   ```

2. Go to Grafana page metioned above and check the region distribution on the TiKV cluster, it should be increasing while the data is continuously written to the cluster. Just like:

{{< figure
    src="/img/docs/region-count-after-load-data.png"
    width="80"
    number="1" >}}

## Step 4. Add two more nodes

1. Create another termianl session, use `tiup playground` to scale out the cluster.
    ```sh
    tiup playground scale-out --kv 2
    ```
2. You can verify the scale-out with:
    ```sh
    tiup playground display
    Pid     Role  Uptime
    ---     ----  ------
    282731  pd    4h1m23.792495134s
    282752  tikv  4h1m23.77761744s
    282757  tikv  4h1m23.761628915s
    282761  tikv  4h1m23.748199302s
    308242  tikv  9m50.551877838s
    308243  tikv  9m50.537477856s
    ```

## Step 5. Verify the data rebalance

> 1. Go to Grafana page metioned above, you will find some regions are splited and rebalance to the 2 new nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to Grafana page metioned above, you will find some regions are splited and rebalance to the 2 new nodes.
```

{{< figure
    src="/img/docs/data-rebalance.png"
    width="80"
    number="1" >}}

> ## Last step. Stop and delete the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Stop and delete the cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: Same comment

Author: Done.

Reviewer 2: Not done yet.

Using the version v5.0.2 for version constraint "".

If you'd like to use a TiDB version other than v5.0.2, cancel and retry with the following arguments:
    Specify version manually:   tiup playground <version>
    Specify version range:      tiup playground ^5
    The nightly version:        tiup playground nightly

Playground Bootstrapping...
Start pd instance
Start tikv instance
Start tikv instance
Start tikv instance
PD client endpoints: [127.0.0.1:2379]
To view the Prometheus: http://127.0.0.1:33703
To view the Grafana: http://127.0.0.1:3000
```

## Step 2. Write data

On another terminal session, we will use [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) to launch a workload.

1. Clone the `go-ycsb` from GitHub.
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb.git
    ```
2. Build the application from the source.
    ```sh
    make
    ```
3. Load a small workload using `go-ycsb`
    ```sh
    # By default, this workload will insert 1000 records into TiKV
    ./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="127.0.0.1:2379" -p tikv.type="raw" 
    ```

## Step 3. Verify replication

> 1. To understand replication in TiKV, it's important to review a few concepts from the [architecture](https://github.com/tikv/tikv#tikv-software-stack).

Reviewer 2: Since this is not a step, I suggest wrapping it by `info` block. BTW, you may want to link to [here](https://github.com/tikv/website/blob/1b03567b85756ad5a7bb7c40cc8174761bab8d09/content/docs/5.1/reference/architecture/overview.md) (if merged).

Author: Done.

| Concept     |                                                                                                           Description                                                                                                            |
| ----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| **Region**  | TiKV could seem like a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. The region is the basic unit of key-value data movement. Each region is a range of keys and replicated to multiple Nodes. These multiple replicas form a Raft group. |

> | **Replica** |                                                                  TiKV replicates each region (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different node.                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: This should be `Peer`?

Author: Done.

2. With those concepts in mind, open the Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (printed from `tiup-playground`) and log in with `admin` whose password is the same as username.

3. On the **playground-overview** dashboard, note the matrices in **region** panel in **TiKV** tab. It shows that the Regions count is the same on all three nodes. This indicates that:

>    *  There are this many "ranges" of data in the cluster. These are the small workload that we use `go-ycsb` injected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   *  There are this many `Region` in the cluster. These are the data imported by `go-ycsb`  which are then split by TiKV.
```

Author: There is no region split while we inject data to the cluster at the first time.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean that after importing the data, there are only one region?

Author: Yes. It's a small workload that will create only one region.

   * Each region has been replicated 3 times (according to the TiKV default).

>    * For each region, each replica is stored on different stores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * For each region, each of its replicas is stored in different stores.
```

Author: using `each` is enough. But applied the `in` hint.

{{< figure
    src="/img/docs/region-count.png"
    width="80"
    number="1" >}}

## Step 4. Write more data

> In this section, we will launch a larger workload, then scales the 3-node local cluster to a 5-node cluster and check the load of TiKV cluster will be **rebalanced** as expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we will launch a larger workload, then scales the 3-node local cluster to a 5-node cluster and check the load of the TiKV cluster will be **rebalanced** as expected.
```

Author: Done.

    Specify version manually:   tiup playground <version>
    Specify version range:      tiup playground ^5
    The nightly version:        tiup playground nightly

Playground Bootstrapping...
Start pd instance
Start tikv instance
Start tikv instance
Start tikv instance
PD client endpoints: [127.0.0.1:2379]
To view the Prometheus: http://127.0.0.1:33703
To view the Grafana: http://127.0.0.1:3000
```

## Step 2. Write data

On another terminal session, we will use [go-ycsb](https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb) to launch a workload.

1. Clone the `go-ycsb` from GitHub.
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/pingcap/go-ycsb.git
    ```
2. Build the application from the source.
    ```sh
    make
    ```
3. Load a small workload using `go-ycsb`
    ```sh
    # By default, this workload will insert 1000 records into TiKV
    ./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="127.0.0.1:2379" -p tikv.type="raw" 
    ```

## Step 3. Verify replication

{{< info >}}
To understand replication in TiKV, it's important to review a few concepts from the [architecture](https://github.com/tikv/tikv#tikv-software-stack).

> {{< /info >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< /info >}}

```

> {{< info >}}
> To understand replication in TiKV, it's important to review a few concepts from the [architecture](https://github.com/tikv/tikv#tikv-software-stack).
> {{< /info >}}
> | Concept    |                                                                                                           Description                                                                                                            |
> | ---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
> | **Region** | TiKV could seem like a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. The region is the basic unit of key-value data movement. Each region is a range of keys and replicated to multiple Nodes. These multiple replicas form a Raft group. |
> | **Peer**   |                             TiKV replicates each region (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different peer. In the same node, it could contains multiple peers of  different regions.                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< info >}}
To understand replication in TiKV, it's important to review a few concepts from the [architecture](https://github.com/tikv/tikv#tikv-software-stack).

| Concept    |                                                                                                           Description                                                                                                            |
| ---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| **Region** | TiKV could seem like a giant sorted map of key-value pairs. The region is the basic unit of key-value data movement. Each region is a range of keys and replicated to multiple Nodes. These multiple replicas form a Raft group. |
| **Peer**   |                             TiKV replicates each region (3 times by default) and stores each replica on a different peer. In the same node, it could contains multiple peers of  different regions.                              |
{{< /info >}}
```

Author: When the table is placed into the `info` block, all the contents' background will turn blue. It is really strange.

> 1. With those concepts in mind, open the Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (printed from `tiup-playground`) and log in with `admin` whose password is the same as username.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (printed from `tiup-playground`) and log in with username `admin` and password `admin`.
```

Author: Done.

1. Open the Grafana at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) (printed from `tiup-playground`) and log in with username `admin` and password `admin`.

2. On the **playground-overview** dashboard, note the matrices in **region** panel in **TiKV** tab. It shows that the Regions count is the same on all three nodes. This indicates that:

>    *  There is only one region. These are the small workload that we use `go-ycsb` injected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   *  There is only one region.It contains the data imported by `go-ycsb`.
```
